emotional relationships with equals are
very different from any relationship
between a superior and inferior any
relationship with there's Authority
involve where decisions are made by one
person and the consequences are carried
out by the other we very often spend our
time and energy in our relationships
with our equals boyfriend's girlfriend's
husbands wives trying to get that other
person to do the right thing for the
right reason but the reality is whether
it's in the workplace or in the military
or even within your own family when you
have relationships between unequals
relationships of command relationships
of authority then we really just need to
focus on getting the person to do the
right thing period and in a sense we
show them some respect we cut them some
slack or we just were less intrusive in
their lives by allowing them to do the
right thing for the wrong reasons to do
the right thing because they're just
following orders because you're the boss
or what have you and vice versa is also
true when you're in the position of the
employee or the inferior you know what I
am speaking of my own parents or
something you just want to limit those
negotiations to the matters of
consequence and you have to resign
yourself to the fact that your boss or
your dad or whatever your commander your
superior it's enough of a struggle for
them to get them to recognize what a
problem is whatever the problem is
you're you're dealing with to get them
to do the right thing to get them to
change the orders or respond to whatever
it is you're complaining about whatever
it is you have to challenge them about
and you really cannot let yourself slip
into the psychology of whether or not
they're doing the right thing for the
right reasons I've got a letter here
from a guy named John by default when i
get messages i just use first names john
has paid one dollar to join my patreon
currently the only income I have in the
world is these donations through patreon
if I do get the job i just applied for
just auditioned for I might say believe
me my salary you're in China is still to
be pitiably low 5,000 qui per month
5,000 Chinese renminbi per month you can
figure that out this is probably under
one thousand dollars a month in whatever
dollar currency you're using Australian
Canadian or American so 5,000 qui per
month um very humanitarian sort of wage
it makes me makes me feel like I'm
making the world a better place don't
you know we'll see we'll see I haven't
got the job yet but interview went great
it gets you guys are wondering um really
really really and we went out for dinner
you know whenever there with people's
would hire me blah blah um alright this
message from John uh was supporting me
on patreon among other things he
reflects on not going to read every word
of this message is that his daughter is
currently five and a half years old and
he's a divorced parent so he doesn't
control every meal that she eats
sometimes she's with the moms and the
dad they take turns from week to week
etc etc and his relationship with the
mother is good but she's not vegan and
he's only recently become vegan and you
know on some level he says he's tempted
to even show his daughter you know
slaughterhouse footage but he's decided
not to do that he said it could be
traumatic for her and could cause all
kinds of drama what have you of course
she's five and a half right it's very
different from having a kid who's 13 or
any other scenario you might want to
think about and also this guy John he
hasn't been vegan all his life so he's
struggling with these things um so he
says enter dad the new vegan i've been
vegan for just over a year now for
ethical reasons and want to change the
planet but that's another story for
another day his ex-wife he says feeds
Erica a typical non vegan diet so he
feeds his daughter and I'm vegan diet
because of this he has chosen not to
share his vegan diet choice is a hundred
percent with his daughter so he is
saying he hasn't really
what his diet is to his daughter and he
has not forced her to become vegan he
says I do cook the odd vegan options for
her and I most definitely and regularly
talk with her about where meat comes
from where dairy and eggs come from etc
she seems a little curious about my
veganism and almost proud sometimes she
seems to like animals as most kids do I
have told her that the animal products
people eat come from animals that must
die so that we can eat them etc etc he
has explained to these animals she has
explained to his daughter that the
animals live fearful unhappy miserable
lives he was on to say she seems to
understand but it is abundantly clear to
me that the concept of animals being
really hurt so that we can have them as
food is not real to her in any way yet I
don't see any real emotional connection
or interest in it she generally just
follows her taste buds and the status
quo so he then says I would love for her
to become a vegan but in my own
upbringing I had religion forced on me
and I resent my parents for doing that
so he finally says I do not want her to
become a vegan because he forces it on
her he wants her to truly get it to
truly understand it and to become vegan
wait he says he wants her to live that
way on her own terms because she truly
gets I want to do a whole series of
videos talking about being middle-aged
you know what that doesn't feel age
mentality towards life I think one of
the one of the many distinctive aspects
of being middle-aged is that you
recognize that some nobody cares what
you want I really understand just how
important this is to this guy
emotionally and personally otherwise
profoundly but nobody cares it doesn't
matter what you want doesn't it it
doesn't matter to this five and half
year old girl doesn't matter your
ex-wife and you're gonna have to live
with that paradox told that you died it
doesn't matter how important is to
nobody cares
and once you've gotten over the coldness
of that I think the next thing you
really have to face up to is that your
relationship with your daughter is one
of authority what you can ask of her is
that she changes her behavior what you
can ask if her is that she conforms to
the rules you create you can have a
child join with five natural you can
have a child take off her shoes every
time she enters the house some families
do that some families don't even here in
Asia that's not universal some families
take off their shoes and some wear the
shoes inside the house I've seen that
here in China what have you it's not
stereotypically agents take off the
shoes when they have that was but it's
just from one family the next different
families have different strategies okay
you cannot ask your children to
appreciate your reasons why they're
taking off their shoes you can't really
get into the psychology of whether or
not they're doing it for the right
reasons whether or not they once they
have their own home once they're
independent from you whether or not they
would force their children to take off
their shoes with a not they would
organize their own apartment house in
the same way you can't get into it you
can't I know you want to I know you
deeply passionately profoundly want your
daughter to share your values shared
decision-making process sympathize with
your reasons for being vegan and then
develop her own reasons that are
compatible with your reasons it's not
going to happen relationships of
authority relationships between unequals
entail that you know you make decisions
that have consequences the other person
and very rarely is she going to make
those of you at age five and a half
where Matta don't when the kid gets to
16 things change and it's not really
respect but it's just an awareness of
the limits of what you can do and what
you should do I think you can demand
behaviors from your child I think you
can set up limits to their behaviors to
what's acceptable what's unacceptable
because it's your home and you're
providing for them etc etc but actually
I do not think you should take the next
step into trying to control their
thoughts their emotions their
motivations and a
come back to the main example that John
himself is using here so John says he
resents the way in which religion was
forced on him as Chuck maybe you would
feel differently if you had grown up in
a religion that was not based on belief
it's not all them are you know
Christianity very much is where your
parents were not trying to control what
you believed your motivations for doing
things they were not trying to make you
morally pure for they just said to you
this is the tradition this is the
ceremony this is how we do this dance
this is that we sing this song and we
expect you to participate in this
tradition and there are both religions
and non religious ceremonies that are
like that where it's actually not about
what the children believe it is purely
about adherence to or conforming to some
kind of ancient tradition try to keep
the tradition alive in Western culture
might be easier to imagine that if it
was something like parents who were
forcing their kids to practice how to
play the piano they'd have to believe in
anything they don't have to believe the
piano is a wonderful art form then I
believe anything particular with the
parents just say look for us in this
household we feel this is crucial to
your education or to Western culture or
something so you have to put in so many
hours practice saying you have to
perform these songs at this level now
there could be a kind of cruelty to that
too don't get me you know depending
they're reasonable maybe they're
unreasonable maybe it's maybe it's a you
know maybe that's a happy part of some
kids lives and I'm it's easy for me
imagine how that might be miserable but
taking the next step in to try to
control the reasons why somebody does
something I think is the wrong way to
think about the problem and instead what
you have to resign yourself to maybe now
when the kids five and maybe even when
the kid is 11 when the kid is 13 is that
you know your role as a parent you don't
relate to this kid as an equal
ultimately you're you're setting
conditions and you can explain those
conditions you can reward the kids
curiosity you can reward the kids
compassion but what you absolutely
cannot do is getting to negotiating
you know their values their motivations
and their beliefs that's the sense in
which they have to remain free even
though they're bound by our house rules